# meat-freshness-image-classification

According to the United States Department of Agriculture, foodborne illnesses affect approximately 48 million people in the United States each year, with meat and poultry being among the top sources of contamination. Spoiled meat can be a burden for many food processing companies and retailers like Costco as food-borne illnesses and spoiled products can poison customer satisfaction and brand reputation. This project attempts to deal with that issue by creating a deep learning model to evaluate the freshness of meat based on its image. The dataset analyzed contains pictures of raw meat from a meat freshness image dataset by Roboflow on Kaggle. There are total of 2,266 images with the data split to 1,816 images for training and 452 images for testing. This project is a supervised problem since the data also contains a csv file with the labels indicating whether the images are fresh, half-fresh, or spoiled. Thus, the project will begin by exploring and cleaning the data, such as scaling the images and then encoding them to 0, 1, and 2 for spoiled, half-fresh, and fresh. Then a deep neural network (DNN) was constructed as a baseline, but the poor abnormal results led to the adoption of cconvolutional neural network (CNN). However, the CNNs were significantly overfitting even with dropout. Image augmentation was applied and the CNNs were able to achieve high accuracy. This entire process highlights the necessity for having a large sample size for deep learning analysis and how image augmentation is a great remedy for small datasets containing images. The final more complex CNN model after image augmentation performed the best with 85.84% training accuracy and 89.81% validation accuracy. This model is then fitted on the entire training set. It achieved a 0.26 loss and 89.59% accuracy. Finally, it is evaluated on the testing set achieving a 0.22 loss and can accurately predict meat freshness for 90.24% of the images.
